and so the first thing to understand is
that like as long as that process
can be improved then you will be a
better communicator okay
so to start with
let's understand this
okay
so why can't i talk like the way i do in
my mind this is such a great question
whenever i'm in my head rehearsing
speeches or conversations i talk so
eloquently and articulated but when it's
time to speak to
when it's time to come to speak with my
mouth i end up stumbling stuttering or
forgetting what i'm saying and about
to say
it happens to me a lot to the point
where i don't want to speak sometimes
and i wish i can talk like that
attractive chad inside my head
i do have anxiety and fear of judgment
along with adhd in case that affects it
why does this happen and how can we
train to overcome this does it have a
term
what a great question
so
a lot of times
we think thoughts in our head
and the thoughts in our head are so pure
so clean they make such perfect sense
and then our beautiful mind is like hey
let us share this brilliance with the
world
and then something happens somewhere
between the brilliance in your mind and
the words that come out of your mouth
something gets super garbled and it
comes out like a hot mess
and then people are super confused
because they're like why is this
happening i understood it it made so
much sense in my head i understood it so
well
in my head like what happened
okay
so
we're gonna talk a little bit about
um
you know why this happens
so to start off with
we have
thoughts that are kind of perfect in our
head right
so let's start with this like what part
of our brain
dictates speech right so we have like
our left hemisphere is very speech
oriented we have something that i'm just
going to go ahead and call the
linguistic cortex
so we have a part of our brain that like
chooses words and formulates like how to
say things
but the interesting thing is that
thoughts
are not restricted to the linguistic
cortex right so for example we have the
default mode network which is the part
of our mind that gives us the capacity
to self-reflect and is hyperactive when
we're depressed so when we're beating
ourselves up in depression oh i'm i'm
i'm stupid i'm dumb i'm this people
don't like me people would be better off
without me the everyone would have more
fun at the party if i wasn't there like
all these kinds of thoughts those are
not coming from the linguistic cortex
right those are coming from your default
mode network
we have a limbic system we have frontal
lobes we have all these different
cortices that will manage things like
risk assessment and anxiety and
mathematics we have all these different
parts of our brain that think
we also have empathic circuits of the
brain right which are like help us
understand other people none of those
things are the linguistic cortex
so the first thing to understand
is that when we have thoughts they exist
in all these different parts of our
brain
and when we speak
all that crap has to get channeled
through the linguistic cortex
and by channeling it through the
linguistic cortex we talk
and so the first thing to understand is
that like as long as that process
can be improved then you will be a
better communicator okay
so to start with
let's understand this
so
why can't the thoughts in my head
translate to the words that come out of
my mouth
and the short answer is because
communication
is a skill
so you know there are all kinds of other
things i can do in my head besides think
right
so i was like in the shower this morning
and i was you know washing my hair and
whatnot and washing my face and i
imagined doing a ninja kick i don't even
know what that is right so i'm just
making this up but like i imagine like
jumping over the fence and like doing
all this parkour and it would be so cool
if i could like jump and like i'm gonna
be like star wars kid and darth maul and
all this good stuff
right and i can imagine those things but
why can't my body do those things
i can imagine it
and so why do we assume that
communication is different why do we
assume that just because we can think
one thing i can think in ninja moves or
matrix martial arts sequences but that
doesn't mean my body can do them why do
we assume for a moment that just because
i can think articulately that speaking
articulately should come automatically
right so it comes down to the fact that
communication is a skill
so what are the components of
communication so the first that we kind
of talked about is the linguistic cortex
so if you want to be an effective
speaker
you have to like
work on the neurons that translate
thoughts
into words
and we know that people do this right so
like we know for example like
if you're an author
or let's say like you do creative
writing
so i'm just gonna use writing as an
example where you can have a scene in
your head you can even have the words in
your head he walked into the room
and he was
you know
covered in
sweat
like you can like think that and then
you write it out and it's like that
doesn't convey what i want
right so like getting stuff through the
linguistic cortex takes practice
so then people may wonder a little bit
about
um
you know so
what are some of the ways in which you
can do this so the first thing that you
can do is you can write stuff out
i don't know if you guys just noticed
but
what did i just look at
did y'all notice what was i looking at
i did this i was like what was i looking
at what do y'all think
right so i've written things out
and so as i write things out it
clarifies things in my mind and
facilitates the process of getting the
thoughts in my head out the linguistic
cortex and like through my mouth
so it's interesting right so you can
write things out so i've also i sort of
also recently discovered or like not
recently but somewhat you know maybe a
year or two ago the part of the reason
i'm successful on stream is that i spent
about 10 years like trying to write a
book and it was crap so like the book
sucked but what happened during those 10
years is i clarified a lot of my ideas
so when you write stuff out you know you
can go through the process of clarifying
ideas
and so the clarification of ideas can be
done through writing stuff out but i
also do this in terms of like verbal
communication without writing things out
so let's say i've got a patient with
narcissistic parents and the holidays
are coming up so when they come into my
office and they're saying i'm anxious
about the holidays i don't want to see
my parents i know they're going to fight
about this or they don't have to be
narcissistic they can be like
irregular people but they're just going
to ask me when am i going to get married
and like i don't want to have that
conversation
and so there's a lot of stuff that they
can tell me
in their office
right they can say to me like hey like i
i want to say this and i want to say
this and i want to say this but when it
comes to actually talking to them it's
hard so what do we do we role play right
we're like okay so like tell me what you
would want to say
and then i'll help them with their
phrasing and we'll kind of like coach
them through like okay why don't you say
this or you could say this i've had
conversations like this with like
patients of mine who want to talk to
their boss about
wanting more time off or like you know
breaking the news to their boss that
they're pregnant because they're
terrified of you know how it's going to
affect their promotion and things like
that forget the fact that it's illegal
but you know no one cares about that
so there's all kinds of like practice
you can literally do with your
linguistic cortex so this can be things
like role-playing conversations
and you can like role-play it in your
head if you want to but i think um
if you've got someone that you can talk
things through with
right so we also have these phrases like
sounding board
you can you can just practice
so that's like the first thing if you
want to be an effective communicator you
can practice
the second reason this is kind of big
that
communication everything makes perfect
sense in your head and doesn't translate
is because of assumptions
so
when you are thinking in your head
you have a bunch of assumptions
but you perfectly understand what your
assumptions are because they're your
assumptions so there's no gap between
like you know if i'm trying to say
one two three four
but i don't realize that my mind is
automatically filling in these gaps
right so then oh this is like perfect
it's a complete line fantastic
but when i start talking it comes out
jarbled
and what's missing it's the assumptions
so when you communicate it doesn't come
out the right way or people don't
understand it the right way so the other
thing to think a little bit about is if
we're saying how do i communicate
effectively
part of that effective communication
involves the other person right so how
do you deal with assumptions
so this is where it's kind of
interesting but this is where the
empathic circuits of your brain come in
so
even authors do this right because like
and when an author is writing something
they may know more of the story than
they want the reader to know but what
they literally have to do is put
themselves in the shoes of the reader
and look at things from the reader's
perspective
what are the things that are missing
from this story what do i need to
explain what are the things that i want
to purposely keep from the story because
every author who has sat down to write a
best-selling novel that had a plot to us
at the end they know the plot twist from
moment one
but it's their ability to empathize with
the reader that allows them to put in
the plot twist because for them it's not
a plot twist it's all figured out like
they know everything right at the
beginning right
so in a similar way if we want to
communicate with someone else what we
need to understand is what are our own
assumptions
and how can we have our audience
understand those assumptions and
oftentimes what's missing between our
head and the perfection of our head and
what is what we give to the rest of the
world what's missing is this stuff right
it's the in between stuff
so as we learn how to be more empathic
and we think a little bit about our
audience
we will start to be better at
communicating so i know this sounds kind
of weird but like i'm a psychiatrist
right so like what is my job
what have i trained myself to do what
i've trained myself to do is put myself
into someone else's shoes okay what's
going on in this person's head it's not
about who's right and who's wrong if i
tell this person hey your thinking is
wrong gg
this is what you should do just
get up every day like i wouldn't be
successful at all right
so being a successful psychiatrist being
a successful therapist being a good
friend
being a good parent
being a good kid
is about acknowledging your own
assumptions and meeting people where
they're at right so if i want to like if
i want to be an effective communicator
and i want to convey
you know this line i have to start by
understanding okay like where is my
audience what do they have and what do
they not have oh that's kind of
interesting so they already have this
part so actually what i need to to say
is this part
which is very different from what i was
envisioning because in my original
vision i only needed this
this
this and this
and so if you want to effectively
communicate instead of like operating
from your own mind and this is how we
get all these kinds of things like why
can't you understand i don't know how do
i get my kids to realize how do i get my
parents to realize that is you pulling
them towards this
instead of operating from here because
when you start communicating this way
you're like okay so they already get
this part so i'm going to provide this
and i'm going to provide this and then
we'll be golden so this is how you be an
effective communicator
so if you want your thoughts to
translate in a way that lands well
with other people
it involves your empathic circuits of
the brain
okay
so in short
we've got a couple of things to think
about so if your problem is
why can't i talk the way i do in my mind
the first thing that you've got to
understand is that
being able to convey the thoughts out of
your head is a skill
so it can be practice like i can imagine
all i can imagine a drawing
but i can't make a drawing i can imagine
doing gymnastics but i can't do
gymnastics there are all kinds of things
i can imagine in my mind and your
thoughts like you know communicating is
no different
and so this is a skill and what are the
components of the skill okay just to
kind of summarize
number one is training the linguistic
cortex
right so everything's got to come
through the linguistic cortex whether
you write or you speak
so this can involve things like writing
things out
right this can involve role playing
even rehearsal
right so these are examples of
essentially practice they're practicing
a skill the second thing is it comes
down to assumptions
so the biggest gaps in our thinking
are assumptions
so like we just don't realize what other
people are missing and if we want to be
effective communicators we need to
engage our empathic circuitry
understand what does someone else
understand we need to start there
because our communication is going to
depend on their understanding not our
understanding right to bridge the gap
between where they are and where you are
i'm trying to drag people over here
why don't you understand why don't you
understand why can't you understand why
can't you understand my boss doesn't
understand my girlfriend doesn't
understand my boyfriend doesn't
understand my dog doesn't understand
instead we need to go where they are
right and then we're going to go here
and then we're going to go here and then
we're going to go here and then we're
going to go here and then we're going to
go here then we're going to go here then
we're going to go here
this is how coaching works so we train
our coaches to meet their clients where
they're at so a client comes in and says
i need to
you know i need to get a job
and so the coach is like okay cool so
that's your goal for coaching right
they're like yeah my goal is to get a
job
and then over time like they may realize
that like okay so that's what the client
wants it's the fantasy that the client
wants but they have so much crap on
their plate they're not ready for a job
yet
every time they try to work on a resume
they deal with so much emotional
resistance and shame
they're like oh my god i'm so like they
try to put together that i have nothing
to put on my resume
and then they quit and they like go
distract themselves for a week
and so it's like the first thing coach
has to do is like work on their shame
but like if you tell the client hey you
need to like process your shame before
you get a job they're like no i need a
job
i need a job like that's my goal so you
have to like lead them there like one
step at a time right so you have to
start like you got to meet them where
they're at
if that makes sense
okay
so the last thing
that you can do
is calm the mind
okay
so this is where if we look at clinical
stuff so for example like let's look at
mania
so when someone has bipolar disorder and
they become manic
there's an alteration to the thought
process
and there's an increase of rapidity of
speech
as a result
manic people
make no sense
if you guys have ever like talked to a
manic person you kind of know what i'm
talking about but like their thoughts
are super super rapid
and they speak very very very rapidly
and they make no sense
i know everyone is joking about xqc but
xqc is not a good example of this xqc is
actually
very very effective at communicating
xqc can summarize things very very
easily
right like he'll drop
serious like knowledge bombs
seriously i'm not kidding
that's why if he was really nonsensical
and unable to communicate he would not
succeed on twitch
you guys get that
so i know everyone memes about that he's
definitely very vata for sure
and his thoughts kind of jump around all
over the place so so do i for that
matter
so in mania what we see is that you know
speeding up the thought process and the
rapidity of speech correlates with
making no sense to the other people so
what we can kind of infer is that
calming down yourself will probably lead
to better communication
so if i'm planning on giving a speech in
front of my class and i do some kind of
breathing exercises sometimes even as a
psychiatrist i'll prescribe something
like propranolol which is an adrenergic
blocker so reduces the effects of the
sympathetic nervous system and reduces
the effects of adrenaline and helps
people give a public speech what are we
doing propranolol is literally a drug
that slows down
the speed of your mind the speed of your
nervous system
and as a result people are able to
communicate more effectively
so calm the mind and slow things down is
the last thing so you can do breathing
exercises etc etc
so if you want to be able to communicate
effectively and you want the stuff in
here
to come out of your mouth in a way that
other people can understand do these
three things
practice with your linguistic cortex
focus on assumptions and think about
their point of view so that you can
structure your communication to be more
effective and calm down the mind and
slow down a little bit
questions
can you only do third sure
you don't have to do all three
but those are the three different
mechanisms that in my experience are at
play like there are probably many more
generally speaking when i face a problem
i find that
rather than going all in on one solution
that's sort of recognizing that problems
are multifactorial right so like the
inability to speak
coherently
isn't it's not like there's a coherent
speech circuit in your brain i mean this
sort of is the linguistic cortex but
there's all kinds of other things going
on right because your brain is inside
your body if your body is flooded with
adrenaline that's going to affect your
neurochemistry so it's not just as
simple as the linguistic cortex
speech in the translation of thought is
a complex phenomenon in the brain and
therefore
we it has a complex solution
do you think it's possible for people to
rationalize their thoughts
uh
they can't say through expression arts
music math problems sports freeform
games absolutely there's overwhelming
evidence that that is the case
so for example if you look at things
like art therapy
not only can you like
rationalize your thoughts you can even
heal the mind through some of these
things so we assume that therapy
involves one human being talking to
another human being but there are all
kinds of other things that you can do
through music through art that will like
emotionally process stuff so there's
strong strong evidence of that
yeah can you do the same type of
practicing for casual conversations as
well absolutely right so like casual
conversation is something you can
practice
like just about anything in life can be
practiced
you